---
layout: ../layouts/Layout.astro
---

import {
  BlueBox,
  RedBanner,
  GrayBox,
  LightGrayBox,
} from "../components/Boxes.jsx";

# Call for Papers

<p></p>

<RedBanner>Registration is free this year!</RedBanner>

The 2024 Family History Technology Workshop will bring together developers,
researchers, technology professionals, and users to discuss current and emerging
family history technologies. The workshop will feature developer sessions,
lightning talks, technical presentations and demos to showcase technologies that
will impact the future of Family History and Genealogical Research.

## Developer Talk

You are invited to give a 10-15 minute talk about new tools, libraries, or
languages, accompanied by a demo of what is being developed. Our emphasis is on
novel approaches that will impact the future of family history technology.

To submit an idea for a developer talk, send us a 1-2 paragraph description of
what you will cover. Include a short biographical statement and a link to your
developer profile on GitHub or other relevant sites.

## Lightning Talk

You are invited to give a 2-5 minute presentation on your latest work in family
history technology. We welcome startups, new open source projects,
work-in-progress, or strongly-held (but informative) opinions on what technology
break-throughs are most needed and how this will impact the future of family
history.

To submit an idea for a lightning talk, send us a one-paragraph description of
what you will cover. Include a short biographical statement and a link to your
product or web site and to your social media profile. Indicate whether you would
also like to provide a demo in between sessions.

## Research Talk

You are invited to give a 10-15 minute presentation on your research, including
key ideas, algorithms and results. Topics could include big data, deep learning,
data modeling, extraction, search, natural language processing, document
processing, handwriting recognition, machine learning, expert systems, social
networks, human interfaces, data visualization, mobile technologies, automated
research, cloud computing, security, or other areas of computing as they relate
to family history research. Research with demonstrated results will be given
priority. Working demos are strongly encouraged.

To submit an idea for a research talk, send a 1-2 page extended abstract,
including citations, similar to what you would submit to a technical conference
in your field of study. Include a short biographical statement and a link to
your personal web presence and/or social media profile.

## How to Submit

Presenters should submit the above information by January 30, 2024 to
fhtw@internet.byu.edu. Submissions will be reviewed by members of the program
committee. To see presentations from previous years, visit fhtw.byu.edu.

## Important Dates

Submissions due: **30 January 2024**

Notification of Acceptance: **6 February 2024**

Research Paper Final Version: **13 February 2024**

Workshop: **27 February 2024**

## Program Committee

**Program Chairs**

Mark Clement, BYU<br />Joe Price, BYU

**Publicity Chair**

Daniel Zappala, BYU

**Program Committee**

Joe Price, BYU Economics<br />Bill Barrett, BYU Computer Science<br />Mark
Clement, BYU Computer Science<br />Dallan Quass, RootsFinder<br />Kirk Duffin,
Northern Illinois University<br />Dave Embley, FamilySearch Research<br />
Christophe Giraud-Carrier, BYU Computer Science<br /> Doug Kennard, Independent
Consultant - Historic Journals<br /> Deryle Lonsdale, BYU Linguistics<br />
James Mayfield, APL / JHU HLT Center of Excellence<br /> Heath Nielson,
FamilySearch Research<br /> Oliver Nina, Ohio State/AFRL<br /> Patrick Schone,
FamilySearch Research<br /> Doran Wilde, BYU Electrical and Computer
Engineering<br /> Randy Wilson, FamilySearch<br /> Robert Ball, Weber
State<br /> Daniel Zappala, BYU Computer Science<br /> Scott Woodfield, BYU
Computer Science<br />
